# A CUDA Library for Data Mining Algorithms

Data mining is a process that requires a massive amount of computational power mainly due to the large size of data being used. Readily available toolkits such as Weka runs on the CPU but still the computational time for large data sets is large as several days, even on a costly multi-threaded Xeon processor. Graphics Processing Units (GPU), which are originally built for graphics processing have hundreds of cores and support thousands of threads. Data mining algorithms that usually have a significant amount of data level parallelism are ideal to be accelerated by implementing on a GPU.

Compute Unified Device Architecture (CUDA) is the programming model introduced by the NVIDIA Corporation to program their GPUs for general purpose computations. At present, many libraries are available for CUDA for a variety of applications (see: https://developer.nvidia.com/gpu-accelerated-libraries). CUDA libraries are quite useful as the learning curve is quite high to implement something from the scratch on CUDA. However, so far, there is no proper CUDA library for data mining applications. The objective of this project is to build an easily usable CUDA library for data mining applications. The library should have the following basic requirements: An easy mechanism for the user to create data structures from the data they have. An easy mechanism for the user to move data to and from the GPU memory. Few mostly used data mining algorithms which the user can set the parameters and then called. Further, you should make sure that the library should be well written such that a developer can easily integrate new algorithms to the library in the future. Further, the users should be able to use the library with a very little amount of knowledge on CUDA.

This project will be supported by NVIDIA Research Center at the University of Peradeniya.
